---
layout: post
title:  "Home lab discussions"
date:   2020-06-22
categories: blog
tags:   [lab]
---
_Note_: My home network and lab setup can be found [here][1].

For my home lab I decided to go with the [Proxmox][2] hypervisor. My resoning for doing this was 
to help make it easier for me to manage the hypervisors running in my lab, as well as utilizing 
some additional features that I might otherwise have script using free ESXi.

From the perspective of ease of use, Proxmox has been great. There is a little bit of a learning 
curve for me since I'm more familiar with VMware vSphere, but nothing has been too difficult to 
figure out after some google-fu. What few features I have needed have been easy to figure out and 
set up, and I can manage both servers from the web UI without the need for running multiple 
instances of a thick client.

Unfortunately, that's where the benefits have stopped. So far, I haven't been able to run any of 
the vulnerable VMs in the lab because they haven't been able to pull a DHCP address from my 
firewall. Because vulnerable VMs are bundled with the intention of being used as local VMs in 
VMware workstation, I have to convert them before import, and it is during this process that the 
VMs lose their NIC. I have not been able to successfully add a new NIC that ends up working, which 
has prevented me from using the VMs that have been imported thus far. This very well could be 
because I am doing something wrong or it could be because the VMs that I have been testing with 
are old, but I will keep trying before moving back to ESXi for the lab.

Platform aside, the Kali VM is where I am doing all of my testing from, since it can be accessed 
from any of the computers in my home. I have set up the pfSense firewall as a barrier between my 
home network and the lab network. All of the vulnerable things will be run inside the lab network 
and the firewall will not allow any traffic out, and the only traffic allowed in from the home 
network side of the firewall is management traffic and anything from my Kali VM. Once I am able to 
get a VM stood up in the lab, I will open up ports 80 and 443 out to my Kali VM to emulate a 
filtered network egress.

Time to get to work! Happy hacking!

[1]: /lab/
[2]: https://www.proxmox.com/en/proxmox-ve